# Claire-Lee-DS4003-term-project

I made sure to clean and structure the data that I got from Kaggle in order to create a visual comparison of different popularity metrics over the years which was presented through an animated bar chart. I also used the data to create an analysis of song titles for positive and negative sentiments and mentions of "love", visualized through interactive pie charts. Some data science techniques I used were data wrangling to clean (pandas), time series analysis to understand trends over the years, and connotation analysis to count the occurrences of specific positive and negative words in song titles. I used buttons, dropdowns, and graphs to provide a user-friendly interface and used Plotly graphs to animate the data presented in the line graph. A learning experience for me was learning how to interactively design the dashboard. I wanted to make sure it was visually appealing while also informative. Learning to use Dash's callback functions effectively to update components based on user interactions was a significant learning experience for me. Some strengths are the interactive visualization that makes the complex and long data more accessible and understandable to users, and the comprehensive data analysis as the project covers a broad span of data from 1901 to 2014 allowing for a robust analysis of trends over time this long understanding of the patterns allows for clear analysis in music popularity, and the use of modern technologies by utilizing dash and plotly which are powerful tools in building interactive web applications in python. 
https://claire-lee-ds4003-term-project.onrender.com
